# Getting started with Serenity and Cucumber

Serenity BDD is a library that makes it easier to write high quality automated acceptance tests, with powerful reporting and living documentation features. It has strong support for both web testing with Selenium, and API testing using RestAssured.

Serenity strongly encourages good test automation design, and supports several design patterns, including classic Page Objects, the newer Lean Page Objects/ Action Classes approach, and the more sophisticated and flexible Screenplay pattern.

The latest version of Serenity supports Cucumber 6.x.

### The project directory structure
The project has build scripts for Maven, and follows the standard directory structure used in most Serenity projects:
```Gherkin
src
  + main
  + test
    + java                        Test runners and supporting code
    + resources
      + features                  Feature files
             Ecommerce.feature
      + serenity.config           Base url, webdriver, report location and chromeoptions
```

Serenity is integrated with WebdriverManager to download webdriver binaries.

## The Ecommerce test scenario(3 testcases)
TC1:@RegisteredAccessCheckoutPage - Login with valid credentials and access checkout page
In this scenario, User logs in with(pre-created) credentials
                  searches for product and adds to cart
                   verify the product has added
                   can access checkout page
                   
 TC2:@NonRegisteredUserAccessCheckoutPage - Guest user(not signed into application) should not be able to access checkout page[Negative Scenario]
 In this scenario, searches for product and adds to cart
                   verify the product has added
                   and tries to access checkout page but test case fails
 
 TC3:@InValidCredentials - User with invalid login or password tries to Sign in
 In this scenario, invalid user id and password should not be able to login



## Executing the tests
To run the sample project, you can either just run the `SerenityRunnerTest` test runner class, or run `mvn verify`below command from the command line.
```json
$ mvn clean verify
```

By default, the tests will run using Chrome. You can run them in Firefox by overriding the `driver` system property, e.g.
```json
$ mvn clean verify -Ddriver=firefox
```
The test results will be recorded in the `report/index.html` directory. End of test result will give below output for easy copy link of report
```json
[INFO] SERENITY REPORTS
[INFO]   - Full Report: file:///C:/Users/nik_a/eclipse-workspace/WebAutomationBDDSerenity/report/index.html
[INFO]   - Single Page HTML Summary: file:///C:/Users/nik_a/eclipse-workspace/WebAutomationBDDSerenity/report/serenity-summary.html
```

## Generating the reports
Since the Serenity reports contain aggregate information about all of the tests, they are not generated after each individual test (as this would be extremenly inefficient). Rather, The Full Serenity reports are generated by the `serenity-maven-plugin`. You can trigger this by running `mvn serenity:aggregate` from the command line or from your IDE.

They reports are also integrated into the Maven build process: the following code in the `pom.xml` file causes the reports to be generated automatically once all the tests have completed when you run `mvn verify`?

```
             <plugin>
                <groupId>net.serenity-bdd.maven.plugins</groupId>
                <artifactId>serenity-maven-plugin</artifactId>
                <version>${serenity.maven.version}</version>
                <configuration>
                    <tags>${tags}</tags>
                </configuration>
                <executions>
                    <execution>
                        <id>serenity-reports</id>
                        <phase>post-integration-test</phase>
                        <goals>
                            <goal>aggregate</goal>
                        </goals>
                    </execution>
                </executions>
            </plugin>
```

## Simplified WebDriver configuration and other Serenity extras
The sample projects both use some Serenity features which make configuring the tests easier. In particular, Serenity uses the `serenity.conf` file in the `src/test/resources` directory to configure test execution options.  
### Webdriver configuration
The WebDriver configuration is managed entirely from this file, as illustrated below:
```java
webdriver {
    driver = chrome
}
headless.mode = true

chrome.switches="""--start-maximized;--test-type;--no-sandbox;--ignore-certificate-errors;
                   --disable-popup-blocking;--disable-default-apps;--disable-extensions-file-access-check;
                   --incognito;--disable-infobars,--disable-gpu"""

```

Serenity uses WebDriverManager to download the WebDriver binaries automatically before the tests are executed.

### Environment-specific configurations
We can also configure environment-specific properties and options, so that the tests can be run in different environments. Here, we configure three environments, __dev__, _staging_ and _prod_, with different starting URLs for each:
```json
environments {
  default {
    webdriver.base.url = "https://duckduckgo.com"
  }
  dev {
    webdriver.base.url = "https://duckduckgo.com/dev"
  }
  staging {
    webdriver.base.url = "https://duckduckgo.com/staging"
  }
  prod {
    webdriver.base.url = "https://duckduckgo.com/prod"
  }
}
```

You use the `environment` system property to determine which environment to run against. For example to run the tests in the staging environment, you could run:
```json
$ mvn clean verify -Denvironment=staging
```

See [**this article**](https://johnfergusonsmart.com/environment-specific-configuration-in-serenity-bdd/) for more details about this feature.

## Want to learn more?
For more information about Serenity BDD, you can read the [**Serenity BDD Book**](https://serenity-bdd.github.io/theserenitybook/latest/index.html), the official online Serenity documentation source. Other sources include:
* **[Learn Serenity BDD Online](https://expansion.serenity-dojo.com/)** with online courses from the Serenity Dojo Training Library
* **[Byte-sized Serenity BDD](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCav6-dPEUiLbnu-rgpy7_bw/featured)** - tips and tricks about Serenity BDD
* For regular posts on agile test automation best practices, join the **[Agile Test Automation Secrets](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/8961597/)** groups on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/8961597/) and [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/groups/agiletestautomation/)
* [**Serenity BDD Blog**](https://johnfergusonsmart.com/category/serenity-bdd/) - regular articles about Serenity BDD
